in this lesson we're going to look at
the functionality and usage of azure
cost management when it comes to costs
we often have two desires
i need to know what am i spending my
money on
and i want to control what i'm spending
my money on and azure cost management
does both of these
firstly we can look at well what are we
spending
so if we jump over to the portal
and there are apis to get this
information as well
but i'm going to go down here to the
bottom to cost management and billing
and then from here i'm going to select
that
and then from here go to cost management
and then i'm going to look at cost
analysis
and what it's going to do right now i'm
focused on a single subscription
and straight away we can see it's
showing me well how have i spent money
so far i can see the rate i'm spending
it
and using machine learning it's saying
well based on how you're spending it
this is what you're trending this is how
you're going to end up spending the
money for the rest of the month so
that's showing me
what i have
notice it's also showing me some
automatic breakdowns by the type of
service
so what am i spending on by service type
what am i spending it on by location
and what resource groups are they
actually in so i get some nice
information straight away
but one of the things i can actually do
here is right now
i'm just saying okay this is showing me
everything
but i could change this i could say here
my group by
i have a whole bunch of choices to
change what i'm being grouped by
and i could go down remember we talked
about tags all the time i could say
group it by tag
and then it will show me all the tags
i've got in my various subscriptions so
i might say we'll group them by cost
center
so now i can quickly see okay well based
on the cost center
i can see well untagged is costing a
certain amount core it is costing a
certain amount
so now it's even easier to see exactly
what is happening here
it's also right now showing me
accumulated costs but there are other
things i could view i could view my
daily costs rather than accumulated so
what am i spending each day
i have the same idea up here at the top
but i could say okay daily costs and
that's going to start breaking it down
by the types of resource
that i'm doing
so now it's got this nice view of
everything i'm spending by the type of
resource
i could see cost by service so what are
the actual services i have costing me
and i could also say hey give me the
details so the exact line by line item
prices of what i'm doing and i can pick
different details
so
basically i can customize this however i
want i can get huge amounts of
information
but maybe i want to control it
so this is where budgets come in so now
i'm over here on this left hand menu
and i can select budgets
so budgets let me define a number
and then actions i want to perform when
i get to that number
now what i can actually control is well
how is that number interpreted
for example i pick a scope i'm doing the
entire subscription
it's showing me historically
what you tend to spend
i might use that to say what's a
reasonable budget i want to configure i
could add various filters around this
so i could filter on certain types of
resource including tag and reservation
name and resource type so i can be very
granule on how these budgets are going
to be created
but i give it a name
i set reset periods and expiration dates
and then i give it a number so i'll say
200.
now
what i can do is i have two choices on
how that 200 number is actually going to
be used
i can say i want this alert condition to
fire
at let's say 50
of the actual use so when i hit 100
i want you to do this thing it can email
different groups of people
but it can also
trigger an action group those same
groups were used in azure monitor so
this could call a web hook it could call
a function an automation all of those
things
or
i can set it based on forecasted
so based on the trend of where i'm going
if it looks like
hey i'm going to actually hit
a hundred percent i 200
i want to do this
or maybe i'm care more well if it looks
like i'm going to hit 150
then i want you to do this thing
so i can actually now trigger things to
happen
before i hit the numbers maybe i can
take corrective actions so forecast it
is looking at well what are we doing
what do we think the trend is going to
be
and let me actually react before
i go and break that number that i really
really don't want to break so those
things together the ability to see into
the costs and then actually be able to
add those various budgets
can be really really powerful